---
layout: post
cTitle: R with GPU
title: "R with GPU"
category: R
tagline:
tags: [R]
cssdemo: 2014-spring
published: true
---
{% include JB/setup %}

The GPU computing is very popular since its capability of parallel computing. The environment of ubuntu is adequate to try GPU computing and its setting is easier than in window. I introduce the installation of CUDA, nVidia driver and R packages of GPU.


<!-- more -->

First, we go over the installation of CUDA 6.0.

1. Download the CUDA 6.0 installer: [CUDA Download](https://developer.nvidia.com/cuda-downloads). In my case, I download the RUN file of Ubuntu 13.04.

2. Remove the old drive of nVidia:

{% highlight bash %}
sudo apt-get purge nvidia
sudo apt-get autoremove nvidia-current
{% endhighlight %}

4. Install compatible GCC compiler. If the version of GCC compiler is not below 4.7.3, please install GCC 4.7.3. You can do that in this way:

{% highlight bash %}
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:ubuntu-toolchain-r/test
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install gcc-4.7 g++-4.7
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/gcc gcc /usr/bin/gcc-4.8 50
sudo update-alternatives --install /usr/bin/gcc gcc /usr/bin/gcc-4.7 10
sudo update-alternatives --config gcc
{% endhighlight %}

Choose gcc-4.7 for installing CUDA.

3. Install CUDA 6.0: Press `alt+ctrl+F1` login tty1 and input following commands:

{% highlight bash %}
sudo bash cuda_6.0.37_linux_64.run -driver -toolkit -silent
{% endhighlight %}

At begin, I do not install the driver, then it cause I can't implement the compiled program.

4. Add some environment variables: Use your text editor to edit `.bashrc` (In my case, it is `subl ~/.bashrc`.) and add following lines into the files: (Notice whether your installation dictionary is the same as mine.)

{% highlight bash %}
export PATH=/usr/local/cuda-6.0/bin:$PATH
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:/usr/local/cuda-6.0/lib:/usr/local/cuda-6.0/lib64
export CUDA_INC_PATH=/usr/local/cuda-6.0/include
export CUDA_LIB_PATH=/usr/local/cuda-6.0/lib64
export CUDA_BIN=/usr/local/cuda-6.0/bin
export CUDA_HOME=/usr/local/cuda-6.0
export R_INC_PATH=/usr/local/lib/R/include
{% endhighlight %}

Then you can use CUDA and start to install R package `gputools`. Besides, if you want `opencl`, then you need to install `opencl-headers` (use apt-get) and you can install R package `OpenCL`.

My environment is ubuntu 14.04. My CPU is 3770K@4.3GHz and GPU is GTX 670.


